#summary How to update CEF to use the newest Chromium revision.

The Chromium developers work very hard to introduce new features and capabilities as quickly as possible. Consiquently, projects like CEF that depend on Chromium must also be updated regularly. The update process can be complicated and must be done carefully to avoid introducing new bugs and breakage. Below are the steps to follow when updating CEF to work with a new Chromium revision.

1. Update to the last "green" Chromium revision by viewing the [http://build.chromium.org/buildbot/waterfall/console Chromium build waterfall]. Choose the most recent revision that is green for all of the Windows builders and tests.

2. Create a diff of relevant directories between the last Chromium revision and new Chromium revision.

{{{
svn diff -r oldrev:newrev > diff_oldrev-newrev.txt
}}}

With CEF1 the following files should be evaluated for changes:

{{{
content/browser/in_process_webkit/*
third_party/WebKit/Source/WebKit/chromium/public/*
webkit/glue/webpreferences.h (watch for new WebKit features that may need to be enabled)
webkit/support/simple_database_system.*
webkit/tools/test_shell/*
}}}

With CEF3 the following files should be evaluated for changes:

{{{
content/shell/*
content/content_shell.gypi
chrome/browser/printing/*
}}}

On Windows you can create a batch script called "diff.bat" in the CEF directory:

{{{
@echo off
call svn diff ..\content\shell -r %1:%2 > diff_%1-%2.diff
call svn diff ..\content\content_shell.gypi -r %1:%2 >> diff_%1-%2.diff
call svn diff ..\chrome\browser\printing -r %1:%2 >> diff_%1-%2-2.diff
}}}

And run it as follows:

{{{
diff.bat OLDREV NEWREV
}}}

This will be your guide to identifying what has changed. CEF began life as a customized version of test_shell (CEF1) or content_shell (CEF3) and there's still a one-to-one relationship between many of the files.

3. Make the necessary changes to CEF, build (clean if necessary) and fix whatever is broken.

4. Run the various CEF tests to make sure everything still works. This step will hopefully be automated at some point in the future.

In most cases (say, 90% of the time) any code breakage will be due to naming changes, minor code reorganization and/or project name/location changes. The remaining 10% can require pretty significant changes to CEF, usually due to the ongoing refactoring in Chromium code. If you identify a change to Chromium that has broken a required feature for CEF, and you can't work around the breakage by making reasonable changes to CEF, then you should work with the Chromium team to resolve the problem.

1. Identify the specific Chromium revision that broke the feature and make sure you understand why the change was made.

2. Post a message to the chromium-dev mailing list explaining why the change broke CEF and either seeking additional information or suggesting a fix that works for both CEF and Chromium.

3. After feedback from the Chromium developers create a code review issue with the fix and publish it with the appropriate (responsible) developer(s) as reviewers.

4. Follow through with the Chromium developer(s) to get the code review committed.

The CEF build currently contains a patch capability that should be used only as a last resort or as a stop-gap measure if you expect the code review to take a while. The best course of action is always to get your Chromium changes accepted into the Chromium trunk if possible.