#summary How to link CEF against a different run-time library.

= Introduction =

Visual Studio supports multiple run-time libraries. The different libraries are identified by flags such as /MD, /MT and /LD. By default, CEF uses the /MT flag that is also used by the Chromium project. Different applications, however, can sometimes require different run-time libraries. 

= Details =

There are two ways currently to link CEF with your application.

== Static Linking (without a CEF DLL) ==

If you wish to link CEF with your application statically then all Chromium and CEF projects must use the same run-time flag as your application.  If your application already uses the /MT flag then you can build CEF statically as follows:

  # Set up the environment required to build Chromium and CEF as described on the project page and build it.
  # Link your application against the resulting libcef_static.lib file.

If, however, your application does not use the /MT flag then you're effectively out of luck. Important parts of Chromium will not compile with a flag other than /MT.

== Dynamic Linking (with a CEF DLL) ==

If you prefer to link CEF with your application dynamically then the process is faster. CEF provides a binary distribution on the downloads page that contains everything you need to link CEF with your application including source code for the libcef_dll_wrapper project. If your application does not use the /MT flag then you will need to rebuild the libcef_dll_wrapper project with the same flags as your application. Unlike with static linking, you will not need to rebuild all of CEF or Chromium in order to do this.

  # Download a CEF binary release from the project downloads page.
  # Open cef.sln in Visual Studio and change the flags on the libcef_dll_wrapper project to match your application.
  # Right click on the libcef_dll_wrapper project and choose the "Project Only -> Build Only libcef_dll_wrapper" option.

= Additional Information =

More information on Microsoft run-time flags can be found here:
http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/2kzt1wy3.aspx